---
title: "Deterministic predictive dynamic scheduling for crop-transport robots acting as harvesting-aids"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2019-10-11-paper-title-number-3
excerpt: 'In this paper,dynamic predictive scheduling was modeled for teams of robots carrying trays during manual harvesting. The times and locations of the tray-transportrequestswere assumed to be known 42exactly (deterministic predictions). Near-optimal scheduling was implemented to provide efficiency 43upper-boundsfor any predictive scheduling algorithms that incorporateuncertainty inthe predictive 44requests. Robot-aidedharvesting was simulated using manual-harvest data collected from a commercial 45picking crew. Scheduling performance was studied as a function of the number of robots –for a given 46crew size –and as a function of robot speed. Additionally, the effect of the earliness of the availability of 47thepredictionson performance was studied.'
date: 2020-05-11
venue: 'Computers and Electronics in Agriculture'
paperurl: 
citation: 
---

Manual harvesting of fresh-market crops like strawberries is verylabor-intensive. Apart from picking 30fruits, pickers spend significant amounts of time carrying fulltraysto a collection stationat the edge of 31
the field. Small teamsof harvest-aid robots that helplarge picking crewsby transportingempty and full 32trayscanincreaseharvest efficiency by reducing pickers’ non-productive walking times.However, robot33sharingamong the crewmay introduce non-productive waiting delaysbetween the time a tray becomes 34full and when a robot arrives to collect it. Reactive robot schedulingcannot eliminate mean waiting times, 35because pickersmust wait fora robot to travel the distance from the collection stationto them. Predictive 36schedulingisbetter suitedto this task,because ifthetime and location that a pickers’ tray will fill are 37known to the scheduler in advance, a robot can start moving toward that location before thetraybecomes 38full; hence, waiting times due to robot travel can be reducedor eliminated.3940In this paper,dynamic predictive scheduling was modeled for teams of robots carrying trays during 41manual harvesting. The times and locations of the tray-transportrequestswere assumed to be known 42exactly (deterministic predictions). Near-optimal scheduling was implemented to provide efficiency 43upper-boundsfor any predictive scheduling algorithms that incorporateuncertainty inthe predictive 44requests. Robot-aidedharvesting was simulated using manual-harvest data collected from a commercial 45picking crew. Scheduling performance was studied as a function of the number of robots –for a given 46crew size –and as a function of robot speed. Additionally, the effect of the earliness of the availability of 47thepredictionson performance was studied.4849Experimental results showed that when only four robots were used, reactive and predictive scheduling did 50not improve the mean non-productive time significantly. Actually, deploying fewer than four robots led to 51worse non-productive time. However, introducing five to eight robots decreased mean non-productive 52time drastically, and when ten or more robots were used, non-productivetime was reduced by 64.6% 53(reactive scheduling) and up to 93.7% (predictive scheduling)with respect to all-manual non-productive 54time. The corresponding efficiency increases were15% and 24%.It was also verified that reactive 55dispatching performed was always worse than deterministic predictive scheduling. Also, when the robot-56to-picker ratio was larger than approximately 1:3, the waiting time and efficiency plateaued, i.e., did not 57improve further, regardless of how early the prediction was available to the scheduler. The reason is that 58the mean waiting time is lower bounded by the sum of mean travel time andtray exchange time, which 59are both constant.Although the above results represent upper-bounds for performance –since predictions 60were perfect -they indicate that tray-transport robots acting as harvest aids can increase harvesting 61efficiency significantly when scheduled properly. 62Keywords: Multi robots operation; Predictive scheduling; Specialty crops harvestsimulation;